%title 速记

=速记 =

Esper is a lightweight kernel written in Java 
which is fully embeddable into any Java process, JEE application server or Java-based Enterprise Service Bus. 
It enables rapid development of applications that process large volumes of incoming messages or events.

finance, fraud detection, business intelligence or battlefield operation

Information flows in from different sources in the form of messages or events, 
giving a hint on the state at a given time such as stock price. 
That said, looking at those discrete events is most of the time meaningless.

Event streams--that is an infinite set of events--considered over a sliding window and further correlated, are highly meaningful, and reacting to them with the minimal latency is critical for effective action and competitive advantage.

can be thought of as a database turned upside-down: instead of storing the data and running queries against stored data, Esper allows applications to store queries and run the data through. Response from the Esper engine is real-time when conditions occur that match user defined queries. The execution model is thus continuous rather than only when a query is submitted.

 Such concepts are a key foundation of EDA, and have been under active research in more than the last 10 years. Awareness of the importance of such systems in real-world architectures has started to emerge only recently.
 
 In Esper, 
 a tailored EPL allows registering queries in the engine. 
 A listener class--which is basically a POJO--will then be called by the engine 
 when the EPL condition is matched as events flow in. 
 The EPL enables to express complex matching conditions that include temporal windows, 
 joining of different event streams, as well as filtering, aggregation, and sorting. 
 Esper statements can also be combined together with "followed by" conditions thus deriving complex events from more simple events. 
 Events can be represented as JavaBean classes, legacy Java classes, XML document or java.util.Map, 
 which promotes reuse of existing systems acting as messages publishers.



